CONTRIBUTORS.md, before:

# List of Contributors

We'd like to thank the following people for contributing ideas to Corda, 
either during architecture review sessions of the R3 Architecture Working Group, 
or in design reviews since Corda has been open-sourced. Some people have moved to 
a different organisation since their contribution. Please forgive any omissions, and 
create a pull request, or email <james@r3.com>, if you wish to see 
changes to this list.

* Alberto Arri (R3)
* Andras Slemmer (R3)
* Andrius Dagys (R3)
* Andrzej Cichocki (R3)
* Andrzej Grzesik (R3)
* Anthony Coates (Deutsche Bank)
* Anton Semenov (Commerzbank)
* Antonio Cerrato (SEB)
* Anthony Woolley (Société Générale)
* Arnaud Stevens (Natixis)
* Arijit Das (Northern Trust)
* Arun Battu (BNY Mellon)
* Austin Moothart (R3)
* Barry Childe (HSBC)
* Barry Flower (Westpac)
* Benjamin Abineri (R3)
* Benoit Lafontaine (OCTO)
* Berit Bourgonje (ING)
* Bob Crozier (AIA)
* Bogdan Paunescu (R3)
* Cais Manai (R3)
* Carl Worrall (BCS)
* Chaitanya Jadhav (HSBC)
* Chris Akers (R3)
* Chris Burlinchon (R3)
* Chris Rankin (R3)
* Christian Kaufmann (Credit Suisse)
* Christian Sailer (R3)
* Christopher Saunders (Credit Suisse)
* Christopher Swanson (US Bank)
* Clark Thompson (R3)
* Clay Ratliff (Thoughtworks)
* Clemens Wan (R3)
* Clinton Alexander (R3)
* Daniel Roig (SEB)
* Dave Hudson (R3)
* David Lee (BCS)
* Farzad Pezeshkpour (RBS)
* Frederic Dalibard (Natixis)
* Garrett Macey (Wells Fargo)
* Gavin Thomas (R3)
* George Marcel Smetana (Bradesco)
* Giulio Katis (Westpac)
* Giuseppe Cardone (Intesa Sanpaolo)
* Guy Hochstetler (IBM)
* Ian Cusden (UBS)
* Ian Grigg (R3)
* Igor Nitto (R3)
* Igor Panov (CIBC)
* Ivan Schasny (R3)
* James Brown (R3)
* James Carlyle (R3)
* Jared Harwayne-Gidansky (BNY Mellon)
* Joel Dudley (R3)
* Johan Hörmark (SEB)
* Johann Palychata (BNP Paribas)
* Jonathan Sartin (R3)
* Jose Coll (R3)
* Jose Luu (Natixis)
* Josh Lindl (BCS)
* Justin Chapman (Northern Trust)
* Kai-Michael Schramm (Credit Suisse)
* Karel Hajek (Barclays Capital)
* Kasia Streich (R3)
* Kat Baker (R3)
* Khaild Ahmed (Northern Trust)
* Klaus Apolinario (Bradesco)
* Koen Vingerhoets (KBC)
* Kostas Chalkias (R3)
* Lars Stage Thomsen (Danske Bank)
* Lee Braine (Barclays)
* Lucas Salmen (Itau)
* Maksymillian Pawlak (R3)
* Marek Scocovsky (ABSA)
* Mark Lauer (Westpac)
* Mark Oldfield (R3)
* Mark Raynes (Thomson Reuters)
* Mark Simpson (RBS)
* Mark Tiggas (Wells Fargo)
* Massimo Morini (Banca IMI)
* Mat Rizzo (R3)
* Matt Britton (BCS)
* Matthew Nesbit (R3)
* Matthijs van den Bos (ING)
* Michal Kit (R3)
* Micheal Hinstridge (Thoughtworks)
* Michele Sollecito (R3)
* Mike Hearn (R3)
* Mike Reichelt (US Bank)
* Mustafa Ozturk (Natixis)
* Nick Skinner (Northern Trust)
* Nigel King (R3)
* Nuam Athaweth (MUFG)
* Oscar Zibordi de Paiva (Bradesco)
* Patrick Kuo (R3)
* Pekka Kaipio (OP Financial)
* Piotr Piskorski (Nordea)
* Przemyslaw Bak (R3)
* Rex Maudsley (Société Générale)
* Richard Green (R3)
* Rick Parker (R3)
* Rhett Brewer (Goldman Sachs)
* Roberto Karpinski (Bradesco)
* Robin Green (CIBC)
* Rodrigo Bueno (Itau)
* Roger Willis (R3)
* Ross Burnett (Macquarie)
* Ross Nicoll (R3)
* Sajindra Jayasena (Deutsche Bank)
* Saket Sharma (BNY Mellon)
* Sam Chadwick (Thomson Reuters)
* Sasmit Sahu (Credit Suisse)
* Scott James (Credit Suisse)
* Shams Asari (R3)
* Simon Taylor (Barclays)
* Sofus Mortensen (Digital Asset Holdings)
* Szymon Sztuka (R3)
* Stephen Lane-Smith (BMO)
* Thomas O'Donnell (Macquarie)
* Thomas Schroeter (R3)
* Tom Menner (R3)
* Tudor Malene (R3)
* Tim Swanson (R3)
* Timothy Smith (Credit Suisse)
* Tommy Lillehagen (R3)
* Viktor Kolomeyko (R3)
* Wawrzek Niewodniczanski (R3)
* Wei Wu Zhang (Commonwealth Bank of Australia)
* Zabrina Smith (Northern Trust)

Commit message:

Section in contributors.md for code contributions.

CONTRIBUTORS.md, after:

# List of Contributors

We'd like to thank the following people for contributing to Corda. Please forgive 
any omissions, and create a pull request, or email <james@r3.com>, if you wish to 
see changes to this list.

## Design contributions

The following people contributed to the design of Corda, either during 
architecture review sessions of the R3 Architecture Working Group, or in design 
reviews since Corda has been open-sourced. Some people have moved to a different 
organisation since their contribution.

* Alberto Arri (R3)
* Andras Slemmer (R3)
* Andrius Dagys (R3)
* Andrzej Cichocki (R3)
* Andrzej Grzesik (R3)
* Anthony Coates (Deutsche Bank)
* Anton Semenov (Commerzbank)
* Antonio Cerrato (SEB)
* Anthony Woolley (Société Générale)
* Arnaud Stevens (Natixis)
* Arijit Das (Northern Trust)
* Arun Battu (BNY Mellon)
* Austin Moothart (R3)
* Barry Childe (HSBC)
* Barry Flower (Westpac)
* Benjamin Abineri (R3)
* Benoit Lafontaine (OCTO)
* Berit Bourgonje (ING)
* Bob Crozier (AIA)
* Bogdan Paunescu (R3)
* Cais Manai (R3)
* Carl Worrall (BCS)
* Chaitanya Jadhav (HSBC)
* Chris Akers (R3)
* Chris Burlinchon (R3)
* Chris Rankin (R3)
* Christian Kaufmann (Credit Suisse)
* Christian Sailer (R3)
* Christopher Saunders (Credit Suisse)
* Christopher Swanson (US Bank)
* Clark Thompson (R3)
* Clay Ratliff (Thoughtworks)
* Clemens Wan (R3)
* Clinton Alexander (R3)
* Daniel Roig (SEB)
* Dave Hudson (R3)
* David Lee (BCS)
* Farzad Pezeshkpour (RBS)
* Frederic Dalibard (Natixis)
* Garrett Macey (Wells Fargo)
* Gavin Thomas (R3)
* George Marcel Smetana (Bradesco)
* Giulio Katis (Westpac)
* Giuseppe Cardone (Intesa Sanpaolo)
* Guy Hochstetler (IBM)
* Ian Cusden (UBS)
* Ian Grigg (R3)
* Igor Nitto (R3)
* Igor Panov (CIBC)
* Ivan Schasny (R3)
* James Brown (R3)
* James Carlyle (R3)
* Jared Harwayne-Gidansky (BNY Mellon)
* Joel Dudley (R3)
* Johan Hörmark (SEB)
* Johann Palychata (BNP Paribas)
* Jonathan Sartin (R3)
* Jose Coll (R3)
* Jose Luu (Natixis)
* Josh Lindl (BCS)
* Justin Chapman (Northern Trust)
* Kai-Michael Schramm (Credit Suisse)
* Karel Hajek (Barclays Capital)
* Kasia Streich (R3)
* Kat Baker (R3)
* Khaild Ahmed (Northern Trust)
* Klaus Apolinario (Bradesco)
* Koen Vingerhoets (KBC)
* Kostas Chalkias (R3)
* Lars Stage Thomsen (Danske Bank)
* Lee Braine (Barclays)
* Lucas Salmen (Itau)
* Maksymillian Pawlak (R3)
* Marek Scocovsky (ABSA)
* Mark Lauer (Westpac)
* Mark Oldfield (R3)
* Mark Raynes (Thomson Reuters)
* Mark Simpson (RBS)
* Mark Tiggas (Wells Fargo)
* Massimo Morini (Banca IMI)
* Mat Rizzo (R3)
* Matt Britton (BCS)
* Matthew Nesbit (R3)
* Matthijs van den Bos (ING)
* Michal Kit (R3)
* Micheal Hinstridge (Thoughtworks)
* Michele Sollecito (R3)
* Mike Hearn (R3)
* Mike Reichelt (US Bank)
* Mustafa Ozturk (Natixis)
* Nick Skinner (Northern Trust)
* Nigel King (R3)
* Nuam Athaweth (MUFG)
* Oscar Zibordi de Paiva (Bradesco)
* Patrick Kuo (R3)
* Pekka Kaipio (OP Financial)
* Piotr Piskorski (Nordea)
* Przemyslaw Bak (R3)
* Rex Maudsley (Société Générale)
* Richard Green (R3)
* Rick Parker (R3)
* Rhett Brewer (Goldman Sachs)
* Roberto Karpinski (Bradesco)
* Robin Green (CIBC)
* Rodrigo Bueno (Itau)
* Roger Willis (R3)
* Ross Burnett (Macquarie)
* Ross Nicoll (R3)
* Sajindra Jayasena (Deutsche Bank)
* Saket Sharma (BNY Mellon)
* Sam Chadwick (Thomson Reuters)
* Sasmit Sahu (Credit Suisse)
* Scott James (Credit Suisse)
* Shams Asari (R3)
* Simon Taylor (Barclays)
* Sofus Mortensen (Digital Asset Holdings)
* Szymon Sztuka (R3)
* Stephen Lane-Smith (BMO)
* Thomas O'Donnell (Macquarie)
* Thomas Schroeter (R3)
* Tom Menner (R3)
* Tudor Malene (R3)
* Tim Swanson (R3)
* Timothy Smith (Credit Suisse)
* Tommy Lillehagen (R3)
* Viktor Kolomeyko (R3)
* Wawrzek Niewodniczanski (R3)
* Wei Wu Zhang (Commonwealth Bank of Australia)
* Zabrina Smith (Northern Trust)

## Code contributions

The following people contributed code to Corda.

* acetheultimate
