docs/source/running-a-notary-cluster/operating-percona.rst, before:

==============================
Percona Monitoring, Backup and Restore (Advanced)
==============================

Monitoring
==========

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is a platform for managing and
monitoring your Percona cluster.  See the `PMM documentation
<https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-monitoring-and-management/index.html>`__.

Running PMM Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Install PMM Server on a single machine of your cluster.

.. code:: sh

   docker run -d \
     -p 80:80 \
     --volumes-from pmm-data \
     --name pmm-server \
     percona/pmm-server:latest

Installing PMM  Client
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You need to configure the Percona repositories first, as described above.
Install and configure PMM Client on all the machines that are running Percona.

.. code:: sh

  sudo apt-get install pmm-client
  sudo pmm-admin config --server ${PMM_HOST}:${PMM_PORT}



Backup
======

You can take backups with the ``XtraBackup`` tool. The command below creates a
backup in ``/data/backups``.

.. code:: sh

  xtrabackup --backup --target-dir=/data/backups/


Restore
=======

Stop the Cluster
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Stop the Percona cluster by shutting down nodes one by one. Prepare the backup to restore using

.. code:: sh

  xtrabackup --prepare --target-dir=/data/backups/

Restore from a Backup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: sh

  mv '{{ data-directory }}' '{{ data-directory-backup }}'
  xtrabackup --copy-back --target-dir=/data/backups/
  sudo chown -R mysql:mysql '{{ data-directory }}'

Note that you might need the data in ``{{ data-direcotry-backup }}`` in case you
need to repair and replay from the binlog, as described below.

Start the first Node
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: sh

  /etc/init.d/mysql bootstrap-pxc

Repair
======

You can recover from some accidents, e.g. a table drop, by restoring the last
backup and then applying the binlog up to the offending statement.

Replay the Binary Log
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

XtraBackup records the binlog position of the backup in
``xtrabackup_binlog_info``. Use this positon to start replaying the binlog from
your data directory (e.g. ``/var/lib/mysql``, or the target directory of the move command
used in the backup step above).

.. code:: sh

  mysqlbinlog '{{ binlog-file }}' --start-position=<start-position> > binlog.sql
 
In case there are offending statements, such as
accidental table drops, you can open ``binlog.sql`` for examination.

Optionally can also pass ``--base64-output=decode-rows`` to decode every statement into a human readable format.

.. code:: sh

  mysqlbinlog $BINLOG_FILE --start-position=$START_POS --stop-position=$STOP_POS > binlog.sql
  # Replay the binlog
  mysql -u root -p < binlog.sql

Start remaining Nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Finally, start the remaining nodes of the cluster.

Restarting a Cluster
====================
When all nodes of the cluster are down, manual intervention is needed to bring
the cluster back up. On the node with the most advanced replication index,
``set safe_to_bootstrap: 1`` in the file ``grastate.dat`` in the data directory.
You can use ``SHOW GLOBAL STATUS LIKE 'wsrep_last_committed';`` to find out the
sequence number of the last committed transaction.  Start the first node using
``/etc/init.d/mysql bootstrap-pxc``. Bring back one node at a time and watch
the logs. If a SST is required, the first node can only
serve as a donor for one node a time.

See the documentation of the safe to bootstrap feature. Similar to restoring
from backup, restarting the entire cluster is an operation that deserves
practice. See the `documentation
<http://galeracluster.com/2016/11/introducing-the-safe-to-bootstrap-feature-in-galera-cluster/>`__
of this feature.

Commit message:

Finding the replica with the most advanced replication index (#1072)

docs/source/running-a-notary-cluster/operating-percona.rst, after:

==============================
Percona Monitoring, Backup and Restore (Advanced)
==============================

Monitoring
==========

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is a platform for managing and
monitoring your Percona cluster.  See the `PMM documentation
<https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-monitoring-and-management/index.html>`__.

Running PMM Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Install PMM Server on a single machine of your cluster.

.. code:: sh

   docker run -d \
     -p 80:80 \
     --volumes-from pmm-data \
     --name pmm-server \
     percona/pmm-server:latest

Installing PMM  Client
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You need to configure the Percona repositories first, as described above.
Install and configure PMM Client on all the machines that are running Percona.

.. code:: sh

  sudo apt-get install pmm-client
  sudo pmm-admin config --server ${PMM_HOST}:${PMM_PORT}



Backup
======

You can take backups with the ``XtraBackup`` tool. The command below creates a
backup in ``/data/backups``.

.. code:: sh

  xtrabackup --backup --target-dir=/data/backups/


Restore
=======

Stop the Cluster
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Stop the Percona cluster by shutting down nodes one by one. Prepare the backup to restore using

.. code:: sh

  xtrabackup --prepare --target-dir=/data/backups/

Restore from a Backup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: sh

  mv '{{ data-directory }}' '{{ data-directory-backup }}'
  xtrabackup --copy-back --target-dir=/data/backups/
  sudo chown -R mysql:mysql '{{ data-directory }}'

Note that you might need the data in ``{{ data-direcotry-backup }}`` in case you
need to repair and replay from the binlog, as described below.

Start the first Node
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: sh

  /etc/init.d/mysql bootstrap-pxc

Repair
======

You can recover from some accidents, e.g. a table drop, by restoring the last
backup and then applying the binlog up to the offending statement.

Replay the Binary Log
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

XtraBackup records the binlog position of the backup in
``xtrabackup_binlog_info``. Use this positon to start replaying the binlog from
your data directory (e.g. ``/var/lib/mysql``, or the target directory of the move command
used in the backup step above).

.. code:: sh

  mysqlbinlog '{{ binlog-file }}' --start-position=<start-position> > binlog.sql
 
In case there are offending statements, such as
accidental table drops, you can open ``binlog.sql`` for examination.

Optionally can also pass ``--base64-output=decode-rows`` to decode every statement into a human readable format.

.. code:: sh

  mysqlbinlog $BINLOG_FILE --start-position=$START_POS --stop-position=$STOP_POS > binlog.sql
  # Replay the binlog
  mysql -u root -p < binlog.sql

Start remaining Nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Finally, start the remaining nodes of the cluster.

Restarting a Cluster
====================
When all nodes of the cluster are down, manual intervention is needed to bring
the cluster back up. On the node with the most advanced replication index,
``set safe_to_bootstrap: 1`` in the file ``grastate.dat`` in the data directory.
You can use ``SHOW GLOBAL STATUS LIKE 'wsrep_last_committed';`` to find out the
sequence number of the last committed transaction. Or, if MySQL is down, use
``mysqld_safe --wsrep-recover``. This command prints the recovered position.
Once you have found the most advanced node, start that node using
``/etc/init.d/mysql bootstrap-pxc``. Bring back one node at a time and watch
the logs. If a SST is required, the first node can only serve as a donor for
one node a time.

See the documentation of the safe to bootstrap feature. Similar to restoring
from backup, restarting the entire cluster is an operation that deserves
practice. See the `documentation
<http://galeracluster.com/2016/11/introducing-the-safe-to-bootstrap-feature-in-galera-cluster/>`__
of this feature.
