docs/source/building-against-master.rst, before:

Building CorDapps against Master
================================

It is advisable to develop CorDapps against the most recent Corda stable release. However, you may need to build a CorDapp 
against the unstable Master branch if your CorDapp uses a very recent feature, or you are using the CorDapp to test a PR 
on the main codebase.

To work against the Master branch, proceed as follows:

1. Clone the `Corda repository <https://github.com/corda/corda>`_

2. Open a terminal window in the folder where you cloned the Corda repository

3. Use the following command to check out the latest master branch:

    ``git checkout master; git pull``

4. Publish Corda to your local Maven repository using the following commands:

  * Unix/Mac OSX: ``./gradlew install``
  * Windows: ``gradlew.bat install``

  .. warning:: If you do modify your local Corda repository after having published it to Maven local, then you must
     re-publish it to Maven local for the local installation to reflect the changes you have made.

  .. warning:: As the Corda repository evolves on a daily basis, two clones of the Master branch at different points in
     time may differ. If you are using a Master release and need help debugging an error, then please let us know the
     **commit** you are working from. This will help us ascertain the issue.

5. Update the ``ext.corda_release_version`` property in your CorDapp's root ``build.gradle`` file to match the version
   here: https://github.com/corda/corda/blob/master/build.gradle#L7

Commit message:

Adds instructions for building Gradle plugins (#3372)
* Update building-against-master.rst

* Self-review.

docs/source/building-against-master.rst, after:

Building CorDapps against a non-release branch
==============================================

It is advisable to develop CorDapps against the most recent Corda stable release. However, you may need to build a CorDapp 
against an unstable non-release branch if your CorDapp uses a very recent feature, or you are using the CorDapp to test a PR 
on the main codebase.

To work against a non-release branch, proceed as follows:

1. Clone the `Corda repository <https://github.com/corda/corda>`_

2. Check out the branch or commit of the Corda repository you want to work against

3. Make a note of the ``gradlePluginsVersion`` in the root ``constants.properties`` file of the Corda repository
    
4. Clone the `Corda Gradle Plugins repository <https://github.com/corda/corda-gradle-plugins>`_

5. Check out the tag of the Corda Gradle Plugins repository corresponding to the ``gradlePluginsVersion``

6. Follow the instructions in the readme of the Corda Gradle Plugins repository to install this version of the Corda Gradle plugins locally

7. Open a terminal window in the folder where you cloned the Corda repository

8. Publish Corda to your local Maven repository using the following commands:

  * Unix/Mac OSX: ``./gradlew install``
  * Windows: ``gradlew.bat install``

  .. warning:: If you do modify your local Corda repository after having published it to Maven local, then you must
     re-publish it to Maven local for the local installation to reflect the changes you have made.

  .. warning:: As the Corda repository evolves on a daily basis, two clones of an unstable branch at different points in
     time may differ. If you are using an unstable release and need help debugging an error, then please let us know the
     **commit** you are working from. This will help us ascertain the issue.
     
9. Make a note of the ``corda_release_version`` in the root ``build.gradle`` file of the Corda repository

10. In your CorDapp's root ``build.gradle`` file:

    * Update ``ext.corda_release_version`` to the ``corda_release_version`` noted down earlier
    * Update ``corda_gradle_plugins_version`` to the ``gradlePluginsVersion`` noted down earlier
