docs/source/clientrpc.rst, before:

Client RPC
==========

.. contents::

Overview
--------
Corda provides a client library that allows you to easily write clients in a JVM-compatible language to interact
with a running node. The library connects to the node using a message queue protocol and then provides a simple RPC
interface to interact with the node. You make calls on a Java object as normal, and the marshalling back and forth is
handled for you.

The starting point for the client library is the `CordaRPCClient`_ class. `CordaRPCClient`_ provides a ``start`` method
that returns a `CordaRPCConnection`_. A `CordaRPCConnection`_ allows you to access an implementation of the
`CordaRPCOps`_ interface with ``proxy`` in Kotlin or ``getProxy()`` in Java. The observables that are returned by RPC
operations can be subscribed to in order to receive an ongoing stream of updates from the node. More detail on this
functionality is provided in the docs for the ``proxy`` method.

.. warning:: The returned `CordaRPCConnection`_ is somewhat expensive to create and consumes a small amount of
   server side resources. When you're done with it, call ``close`` on it. Alternatively you may use the ``use``
   method on `CordaRPCClient`_ which cleans up automatically after the passed in lambda finishes. Don't create
   a new proxy for every call you make - reuse an existing one.

For a brief tutorial on using the RPC API, see :doc:`tutorial-clientrpc-api`.

RPC permissions
---------------
For a node's owner to interact with their node via RPC, they must define one or more RPC users. Each user is
authenticated with a username and password, and is assigned a set of permissions that control which RPC operations they
can perform. Permissions are not required to interact with the node via the shell, unless the shell is being accessed via SSH.

RPC users are created by adding them to the ``rpcUsers`` list in the node's ``node.conf`` file:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        rpcUsers=[
            {
                username=exampleUser
                password=examplePass
                permissions=[]
            }
            ...
        ]

By default, RPC users are not permissioned to perform any RPC operations.

Granting flow permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You provide an RPC user with the permission to start a specific flow using the syntax
``StartFlow.<fully qualified flow name>``:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        rpcUsers=[
            {
                username=exampleUser
                password=examplePass
                permissions=[
                    "StartFlow.net.corda.flows.ExampleFlow1",
                    "StartFlow.net.corda.flows.ExampleFlow2"
                ]
            }
            ...
        ]

You can also provide an RPC user with the permission to start any flow using the syntax
``InvokeRpc.startFlow``:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        rpcUsers=[
            {
                username=exampleUser
                password=examplePass
                permissions=[
                    "InvokeRpc.startFlow"
                ]
            }
            ...
        ]

Granting other RPC permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You provide an RPC user with the permission to perform a specific RPC operation using the syntax
``InvokeRpc.<rpc method name>``:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        rpcUsers=[
            {
                username=exampleUser
                password=examplePass
                permissions=[
                    "InvokeRpc.nodeInfo",
                    "InvokeRpc.networkMapSnapshot"
                ]
            }
            ...
        ]

Granting all permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can provide an RPC user with the permission to perform any RPC operation (including starting any flow) using the
``ALL`` permission:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        rpcUsers=[
            {
                username=exampleUser
                password=examplePass
                permissions=[
                    "ALL"
                ]
            }
            ...
        ]

.. _rpc_security_mgmt_ref:

RPC security management
-----------------------

Setting ``rpcUsers`` provides a simple way of granting RPC permissions to a fixed set of users, but has some
obvious shortcomings. To support use cases aiming for higher security and flexibility, Corda offers additional security
features such as:

 * Fetching users credentials and permissions from an external data source (e.g.: a remote RDBMS), with optional in-memory
   caching. In particular, this allows credentials and permissions to be updated externally without requiring nodes to be
   restarted.
 * Password stored in hash-encrypted form. This is regarded as must-have when security is a concern. Corda currently supports
   a flexible password hash format conforming to the Modular Crypt Format provided by the `Apache Shiro framework <https://shiro.apache.org/static/1.2.5/apidocs/org/apache/shiro/crypto/hash/format/Shiro1CryptFormat.html>`_

These features are controlled by a set of options nested in the ``security`` field of ``node.conf``.
The following example shows how to configure retrieval of users credentials and permissions from a remote database with
passwords in hash-encrypted format and enable in-memory caching of users data:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        security = {
            authService = {
                dataSource = {
                    type = "DB",
                    passwordEncryption = "SHIRO_1_CRYPT",
                    connection = {
                       jdbcUrl = "<jdbc connection string>"
                       username = "<db username>"
                       password = "<db user password>"
                       driverClassName = "<JDBC driver>"
                    }
                }
                options = {
                     cache = {
                        expireAfterSecs = 120
                        maxEntries = 10000
                     }
                }
            }
        }

It is also possible to have a static list of users embedded in the ``security`` structure by specifying a ``dataSource``
of ``INMEMORY`` type:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        security = {
            authService = {
                dataSource = {
                    type = "INMEMORY",
                    users = [
                        {
                            username = "<username>",
                            password = "<password>",
                            permissions = ["<permission 1>", "<permission 2>", ...]
                        },
                        ...
                    ]
                }
            }
        }

.. warning:: A valid configuration cannot specify both the ``rpcUsers`` and ``security`` fields. Doing so will trigger
   an exception at node startup.

Authentication/authorisation data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``dataSource`` structure defines the data provider supplying credentials and permissions for users. There exist two
supported types of such data source, identified by the ``dataSource.type`` field:

 :INMEMORY: A static list of user credentials and permissions specified by the ``users`` field.

 :DB: An external RDBMS accessed via the JDBC connection described by ``connection``. Note that, unlike the ``INMEMORY``
  case, in a user database permissions are assigned to *roles* rather than individual users. The current implementation
  expects the database to store data according to the following schema:

       - Table ``users`` containing columns ``username`` and ``password``. The ``username`` column *must have unique values*.
       - Table ``user_roles`` containing columns ``username`` and ``role_name`` associating a user to a set of *roles*.
       - Table ``roles_permissions`` containing columns ``role_name`` and ``permission`` associating a role to a set of
         permission strings.

  .. note:: There is no prescription on the SQL type of each column (although our tests were conducted on ``username`` and
    ``role_name`` declared of SQL type ``VARCHAR`` and ``password`` of ``TEXT`` type). It is also possible to have extra columns
    in each table alongside the expected ones.

Password encryption
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Storing passwords in plain text is discouraged in applications where security is critical. Passwords are assumed
to be in plain format by default, unless a different format is specified by the ``passwordEncryption`` field, like:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        passwordEncryption = SHIRO_1_CRYPT

``SHIRO_1_CRYPT`` identifies the `Apache Shiro fully reversible
Modular Crypt Format <https://shiro.apache.org/static/1.2.5/apidocs/org/apache/shiro/crypto/hash/format/Shiro1CryptFormat.html>`_,
it is currently the only non-plain password hash-encryption format supported. Hash-encrypted passwords in this
format can be produced by using the `Apache Shiro Hasher command line tool <https://shiro.apache.org/command-line-hasher.html>`_.

Caching user accounts data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A cache layer on top of the external data source of users credentials and permissions can significantly improve
performances in some cases, with the disadvantage of causing a (controllable) delay in picking up updates to the underlying data.
Caching is disabled by default, it can be enabled by defining the ``options.cache`` field in ``security.authService``,
for example:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        options = {
             cache = {
                expireAfterSecs = 120
                maxEntries = 10000
             }
        }

This will enable a non-persistent cache contained in the node's memory with maximum number of entries set to ``maxEntries``
where entries are expired and refreshed after ``expireAfterSecs`` seconds.

Observables
-----------
The RPC system handles observables in a special way. When a method returns an observable, whether directly or
as a sub-object of the response object graph, an observable is created on the client to match the one on the
server. Objects emitted by the server-side observable are pushed onto a queue which is then drained by the client.
The returned observable may even emit object graphs with even more observables in them, and it all works as you
would expect.

This feature comes with a cost: the server must queue up objects emitted by the server-side observable until you
download them. Note that the server side observation buffer is bounded, once it fills up the client is considered
slow and kicked. You are expected to subscribe to all the observables returned, otherwise client-side memory starts
filling up as observations come in. If you don't want an observable then subscribe then unsubscribe immediately to
clear the client-side buffers and to stop the server from streaming. If your app quits then server side resources
will be freed automatically.

.. warning:: If you leak an observable on the client side and it gets garbage collected, you will get a warning
   printed to the logs and the observable will be unsubscribed for you. But don't rely on this, as garbage collection
   is non-deterministic.

Futures
-------
A method can also return a ``ListenableFuture`` in its object graph and it will be treated in a similar manner to
observables. Calling the ``cancel`` method on the future will unsubscribe it from any future value and release any resources.

Versioning
----------
The client RPC protocol is versioned using the node's Platform Version (see :doc:`versioning`). When a proxy is created
the server is queried for its version, and you can specify your minimum requirement. Methods added in later versions
are tagged with the ``@RPCSinceVersion`` annotation. If you try to use a method that the server isn't advertising support
of, an ``UnsupportedOperationException`` is thrown. If you want to know the version of the server, just use the
``protocolVersion`` property (i.e. ``getProtocolVersion`` in Java).

Thread safety
-------------
A proxy is thread safe, blocking, and allows multiple RPCs to be in flight at once. Any observables that are returned and
you subscribe to will have objects emitted in order on a background thread pool. Each Observable stream is tied to a single
thread, however note that two separate Observables may invoke their respective callbacks on different threads.

Error handling
--------------
If something goes wrong with the RPC infrastructure itself, an ``RPCException`` is thrown. If you call a method that
requires a higher version of the protocol than the server supports, ``UnsupportedOperationException`` is thrown.
Otherwise, if the server implementation throws an exception, that exception is serialised and rethrown on the client
side as if it was thrown from inside the called RPC method. These exceptions can be caught as normal.

Wire protocol
-------------
The client RPC wire protocol is defined and documented in ``net/corda/client/rpc/RPCApi.kt``.

Wire security
-------------
``CordaRPCClient`` has an optional constructor parameter of type ``SSLConfiguration``, defaulted to ``null``, which allows
communication with the node using SSL. Default ``null`` value means no SSL used in the context of RPC.

Whitelisting classes with the Corda node
----------------------------------------
CorDapps must whitelist any classes used over RPC with Corda's serialization framework, unless they are whitelisted by
default in ``DefaultWhitelist``. The whitelisting is done either via the plugin architecture or by using the
``@CordaSerializable`` annotation.  See :doc:`serialization`. An example is shown in :doc:`tutorial-clientrpc-api`.

.. _CordaRPCClient: api/javadoc/net/corda/client/rpc/CordaRPCClient.html
.. _CordaRPCOps: api/javadoc/net/corda/core/messaging/CordaRPCOps.html
.. _CordaRPCConnection: api/javadoc/net/corda/client/rpc/CordaRPCConnection.html

Commit message:

CORDA-1343 Make the RPCClient ssl constructors public. Clean up broke… (#3039)
* CORDA-1343 Make the RPCClient ssl constructors public. Clean up broker authentication logic

* CORDA-1343 small fix

* CORDA-1343 cleanup

* CORDA-1343 fixed api changes script

* CORDA-1343 fixed merge

* CORDA-1343 removed unused property

* CORDA-1343 add separate p2p and rpc node users

* CORDA-1343 remove test configuration

* CORDA-1343 fix tests

* CORDA-1343 address core review comments

* CORDA-1343 some documentation and adding createWithSsl method for a haAddressPool

* CORDA-1343 clean up the CordaRPCClient interface

* CORDA-1343 add internal shell test

* CORDA-1343 address code review comments

* CORDA-1343 split the internalShell user from the System Rpc user

* CORDA-1343 fix test

* CORDA-1343 Add warning when certificateChainCheckPolicies is being configured

* CORDA-1343 Address code review changes

* CORDA-1343 fix merge

* CORDA-1343 added test, docs, clarify comments

* CORDA-1343 clean up docs

* CORDA-1343 fix api

* CORDA-1343 fix merge

* CORDA-1343 fix merge

* CORDA-1343 fix merge

* CORDA-1343 fix merge

docs/source/clientrpc.rst, after:

Client RPC
==========

.. contents::

Overview
--------
Corda provides a client library that allows you to easily write clients in a JVM-compatible language to interact
with a running node. The library connects to the node using a message queue protocol and then provides a simple RPC
interface to interact with the node. You make calls on a Java object as normal, and the marshalling back and forth is
handled for you.

The starting point for the client library is the `CordaRPCClient`_ class. `CordaRPCClient`_ provides a ``start`` method
that returns a `CordaRPCConnection`_. A `CordaRPCConnection`_ allows you to access an implementation of the
`CordaRPCOps`_ interface with ``proxy`` in Kotlin or ``getProxy()`` in Java. The observables that are returned by RPC
operations can be subscribed to in order to receive an ongoing stream of updates from the node. More detail on this
functionality is provided in the docs for the ``proxy`` method.

.. warning:: The returned `CordaRPCConnection`_ is somewhat expensive to create and consumes a small amount of
   server side resources. When you're done with it, call ``close`` on it. Alternatively you may use the ``use``
   method on `CordaRPCClient`_ which cleans up automatically after the passed in lambda finishes. Don't create
   a new proxy for every call you make - reuse an existing one.

For a brief tutorial on using the RPC API, see :doc:`tutorial-clientrpc-api`.

RPC permissions
---------------
For a node's owner to interact with their node via RPC, they must define one or more RPC users. Each user is
authenticated with a username and password, and is assigned a set of permissions that control which RPC operations they
can perform. Permissions are not required to interact with the node via the shell, unless the shell is being accessed via SSH.

RPC users are created by adding them to the ``rpcUsers`` list in the node's ``node.conf`` file:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        rpcUsers=[
            {
                username=exampleUser
                password=examplePass
                permissions=[]
            }
            ...
        ]

By default, RPC users are not permissioned to perform any RPC operations.

Granting flow permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You provide an RPC user with the permission to start a specific flow using the syntax
``StartFlow.<fully qualified flow name>``:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        rpcUsers=[
            {
                username=exampleUser
                password=examplePass
                permissions=[
                    "StartFlow.net.corda.flows.ExampleFlow1",
                    "StartFlow.net.corda.flows.ExampleFlow2"
                ]
            }
            ...
        ]

You can also provide an RPC user with the permission to start any flow using the syntax
``InvokeRpc.startFlow``:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        rpcUsers=[
            {
                username=exampleUser
                password=examplePass
                permissions=[
                    "InvokeRpc.startFlow"
                ]
            }
            ...
        ]

Granting other RPC permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You provide an RPC user with the permission to perform a specific RPC operation using the syntax
``InvokeRpc.<rpc method name>``:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        rpcUsers=[
            {
                username=exampleUser
                password=examplePass
                permissions=[
                    "InvokeRpc.nodeInfo",
                    "InvokeRpc.networkMapSnapshot"
                ]
            }
            ...
        ]

Granting all permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can provide an RPC user with the permission to perform any RPC operation (including starting any flow) using the
``ALL`` permission:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        rpcUsers=[
            {
                username=exampleUser
                password=examplePass
                permissions=[
                    "ALL"
                ]
            }
            ...
        ]

.. _rpc_security_mgmt_ref:

RPC security management
-----------------------

Setting ``rpcUsers`` provides a simple way of granting RPC permissions to a fixed set of users, but has some
obvious shortcomings. To support use cases aiming for higher security and flexibility, Corda offers additional security
features such as:

 * Fetching users credentials and permissions from an external data source (e.g.: a remote RDBMS), with optional in-memory
   caching. In particular, this allows credentials and permissions to be updated externally without requiring nodes to be
   restarted.
 * Password stored in hash-encrypted form. This is regarded as must-have when security is a concern. Corda currently supports
   a flexible password hash format conforming to the Modular Crypt Format provided by the `Apache Shiro framework <https://shiro.apache.org/static/1.2.5/apidocs/org/apache/shiro/crypto/hash/format/Shiro1CryptFormat.html>`_

These features are controlled by a set of options nested in the ``security`` field of ``node.conf``.
The following example shows how to configure retrieval of users credentials and permissions from a remote database with
passwords in hash-encrypted format and enable in-memory caching of users data:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        security = {
            authService = {
                dataSource = {
                    type = "DB",
                    passwordEncryption = "SHIRO_1_CRYPT",
                    connection = {
                       jdbcUrl = "<jdbc connection string>"
                       username = "<db username>"
                       password = "<db user password>"
                       driverClassName = "<JDBC driver>"
                    }
                }
                options = {
                     cache = {
                        expireAfterSecs = 120
                        maxEntries = 10000
                     }
                }
            }
        }

It is also possible to have a static list of users embedded in the ``security`` structure by specifying a ``dataSource``
of ``INMEMORY`` type:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        security = {
            authService = {
                dataSource = {
                    type = "INMEMORY",
                    users = [
                        {
                            username = "<username>",
                            password = "<password>",
                            permissions = ["<permission 1>", "<permission 2>", ...]
                        },
                        ...
                    ]
                }
            }
        }

.. warning:: A valid configuration cannot specify both the ``rpcUsers`` and ``security`` fields. Doing so will trigger
   an exception at node startup.

Authentication/authorisation data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``dataSource`` structure defines the data provider supplying credentials and permissions for users. There exist two
supported types of such data source, identified by the ``dataSource.type`` field:

 :INMEMORY: A static list of user credentials and permissions specified by the ``users`` field.

 :DB: An external RDBMS accessed via the JDBC connection described by ``connection``. Note that, unlike the ``INMEMORY``
  case, in a user database permissions are assigned to *roles* rather than individual users. The current implementation
  expects the database to store data according to the following schema:

       - Table ``users`` containing columns ``username`` and ``password``. The ``username`` column *must have unique values*.
       - Table ``user_roles`` containing columns ``username`` and ``role_name`` associating a user to a set of *roles*.
       - Table ``roles_permissions`` containing columns ``role_name`` and ``permission`` associating a role to a set of
         permission strings.

  .. note:: There is no prescription on the SQL type of each column (although our tests were conducted on ``username`` and
    ``role_name`` declared of SQL type ``VARCHAR`` and ``password`` of ``TEXT`` type). It is also possible to have extra columns
    in each table alongside the expected ones.

Password encryption
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Storing passwords in plain text is discouraged in applications where security is critical. Passwords are assumed
to be in plain format by default, unless a different format is specified by the ``passwordEncryption`` field, like:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        passwordEncryption = SHIRO_1_CRYPT

``SHIRO_1_CRYPT`` identifies the `Apache Shiro fully reversible
Modular Crypt Format <https://shiro.apache.org/static/1.2.5/apidocs/org/apache/shiro/crypto/hash/format/Shiro1CryptFormat.html>`_,
it is currently the only non-plain password hash-encryption format supported. Hash-encrypted passwords in this
format can be produced by using the `Apache Shiro Hasher command line tool <https://shiro.apache.org/command-line-hasher.html>`_.

Caching user accounts data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A cache layer on top of the external data source of users credentials and permissions can significantly improve
performances in some cases, with the disadvantage of causing a (controllable) delay in picking up updates to the underlying data.
Caching is disabled by default, it can be enabled by defining the ``options.cache`` field in ``security.authService``,
for example:

.. container:: codeset

    .. sourcecode:: groovy

        options = {
             cache = {
                expireAfterSecs = 120
                maxEntries = 10000
             }
        }

This will enable a non-persistent cache contained in the node's memory with maximum number of entries set to ``maxEntries``
where entries are expired and refreshed after ``expireAfterSecs`` seconds.

Observables
-----------
The RPC system handles observables in a special way. When a method returns an observable, whether directly or
as a sub-object of the response object graph, an observable is created on the client to match the one on the
server. Objects emitted by the server-side observable are pushed onto a queue which is then drained by the client.
The returned observable may even emit object graphs with even more observables in them, and it all works as you
would expect.

This feature comes with a cost: the server must queue up objects emitted by the server-side observable until you
download them. Note that the server side observation buffer is bounded, once it fills up the client is considered
slow and kicked. You are expected to subscribe to all the observables returned, otherwise client-side memory starts
filling up as observations come in. If you don't want an observable then subscribe then unsubscribe immediately to
clear the client-side buffers and to stop the server from streaming. If your app quits then server side resources
will be freed automatically.

.. warning:: If you leak an observable on the client side and it gets garbage collected, you will get a warning
   printed to the logs and the observable will be unsubscribed for you. But don't rely on this, as garbage collection
   is non-deterministic.

Futures
-------
A method can also return a ``ListenableFuture`` in its object graph and it will be treated in a similar manner to
observables. Calling the ``cancel`` method on the future will unsubscribe it from any future value and release any resources.

Versioning
----------
The client RPC protocol is versioned using the node's Platform Version (see :doc:`versioning`). When a proxy is created
the server is queried for its version, and you can specify your minimum requirement. Methods added in later versions
are tagged with the ``@RPCSinceVersion`` annotation. If you try to use a method that the server isn't advertising support
of, an ``UnsupportedOperationException`` is thrown. If you want to know the version of the server, just use the
``protocolVersion`` property (i.e. ``getProtocolVersion`` in Java).

Thread safety
-------------
A proxy is thread safe, blocking, and allows multiple RPCs to be in flight at once. Any observables that are returned and
you subscribe to will have objects emitted in order on a background thread pool. Each Observable stream is tied to a single
thread, however note that two separate Observables may invoke their respective callbacks on different threads.

Error handling
--------------
If something goes wrong with the RPC infrastructure itself, an ``RPCException`` is thrown. If you call a method that
requires a higher version of the protocol than the server supports, ``UnsupportedOperationException`` is thrown.
Otherwise, if the server implementation throws an exception, that exception is serialised and rethrown on the client
side as if it was thrown from inside the called RPC method. These exceptions can be caught as normal.

Wire protocol
-------------
The client RPC wire protocol is defined and documented in ``net/corda/client/rpc/RPCApi.kt``.

Wire security
-------------
``CordaRPCClient`` has an optional constructor parameter of type ``ClientRpcSslOptions``, defaulted to ``null``, which allows
communication with the node using SSL. Default ``null`` value means no SSL used in the context of RPC.

To use this feature, the ``CordaRPCClient`` object provides a static factory method ``createWithSsl``.

In order for this to work, the client needs to provide a truststore containing a certificate received from the node admin.
(The Node does not expect the RPC client to present a certificate, as the client already authenticates using the mechanism described above.)

For the communication to be secure, we recommend using the standard SSL best practices for key management.


Whitelisting classes with the Corda node
----------------------------------------
CorDapps must whitelist any classes used over RPC with Corda's serialization framework, unless they are whitelisted by
default in ``DefaultWhitelist``. The whitelisting is done either via the plugin architecture or by using the
``@CordaSerializable`` annotation.  See :doc:`serialization`. An example is shown in :doc:`tutorial-clientrpc-api`.

.. _CordaRPCClient: api/javadoc/net/corda/client/rpc/CordaRPCClient.html
.. _CordaRPCOps: api/javadoc/net/corda/core/messaging/CordaRPCOps.html
.. _CordaRPCConnection: api/javadoc/net/corda/client/rpc/CordaRPCConnection.html
