docs/source/contributing.rst, before:

Contributing
============

Corda is an open-source project and we welcome contributions. This guide explains how to contribute back to Corda.

.. contents::

Identifying an area to contribute
---------------------------------
There are several ways to identify an area where you can contribute to Corda:

* Browse issues labelled as ``HelpWanted`` on the
  `Corda JIRA board <https://r3-cev.atlassian.net/issues/?jql=labels%20%3D%20HelpWanted>`_

  * Any issue with a ``HelpWanted`` label is considered ideal for open-source contributions
  * If there is a feature you would like to add and there isn't a corresponding issue labelled as ``HelpWanted``, that
    doesn't mean your contribution isn't welcome. Please reach out on the Corda Slack channel (see below) to clarify

* Check the `Corda GitHub issues <https://github.com/corda/corda/issues>`_

  * It's always worth checking in the Corda Slack channel (see below) whether a given issue is a good target for your
    contribution. Someone else may already be working on it, or it may be blocked by an on-going piece of work

* Ask in the `Corda Slack channel <http://slack.corda.net/>`_

Making the required changes
---------------------------

1. Create a fork of the master branch of the `Corda repo <https://github.com/corda/corda>`_
2. Clone the fork to your local machine
3. Make the changes, in accordance with the :doc:`code style guide </codestyle>`

Testing the changes
-------------------

Running the tests
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Your changes must pass the tests described :doc:`here </testing>`.

Building against the master branch
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You may also want to test your changes against a CorDapp defined outside of the Corda repo. To do so, please follow the
instructions :doc:`here </building-against-master>`.

Merging the changes back into Corda
-----------------------------------

1. Create a pull request from your fork to the master branch of the Corda repo
2. Complete the pull-request checklist in the comments box:

    * State that you have run the tests
    * State that you have included JavaDocs for any new public APIs
    * State that you have included the change in the :doc:`changelog </changelog>` and
      :doc:`release notes </release-notes>` where applicable
    * State that you are in agreement with the terms of
      `CONTRIBUTING.md <https://github.com/corda/corda/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md>`_

3. Request a review from a member of the Corda platform team via the `Corda Slack channel <http://slack.corda.net/>`_
4. Wait for your PR to pass all four types of continuous integration tests (integration, API stability, build and unit)

   * Currently, external contributors cannot see the output of these tests. If your PR fails a test that passed
     locally, ask the reviewer for further details

5. Once a reviewer has approved the PR and the tests have passed, squash-and-merge the PR as a single commit

Commit message:

Link back to contributing.md. Instructions on updating docs. Tweaks.

docs/source/contributing.rst, after:

Contributing
============

Corda is an open-source project and contributions are welcome. Our contributing philosophy is described in 
`CONTRIBUTING.md <https://github.com/corda/corda/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md>`_. This guide explains the mechanics 
of contributing to Corda.

.. contents::

Identifying an area to contribute
---------------------------------
There are several ways to identify an area where you can contribute to Corda:

* Ask in the ``#design`` channel of the `Corda Slack <http://slack.corda.net/>`_

* Browse the `Corda GitHub issues <https://github.com/corda/corda/issues>`_

  * It's always worth checking in the ``#design`` channel whether a given issue is a good target for your
    contribution. Someone else may already be working on it, or it may be blocked by an on-going piece of work

* Browse issues labelled as ``HelpWanted`` on the
  `Corda JIRA board <https://r3-cev.atlassian.net/issues/?jql=labels%20%3D%20HelpWanted>`_

  * Any issue with a ``HelpWanted`` label is considered ideal for open-source contributions
  * If there is a feature you would like to add and there isn't a corresponding issue labelled as ``HelpWanted``, that
    doesn't mean your contribution isn't welcome. Please reach out on the ``#design`` channel to clarify

Making the required changes
---------------------------

1. Create a fork of the master branch of the `Corda repo <https://github.com/corda/corda>`_
2. Clone the fork to your local machine
3. Make the changes, in accordance with the :doc:`code style guide </codestyle>`

Testing the changes
-------------------

Running the tests
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Your changes must pass the tests described :doc:`here </testing>`.

Building against the master branch
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You can test your changes against CorDapps defined in other repos by following the instructions :doc:`here </building-against-master>`.

Updating the docs
-----------------

Any changes to Corda's public API must be documented as follows:

1. Update the relevant `.rst file(s) <https://github.com/corda/corda/tree/master/docs/source>`_
2. Include the change in the :doc:`changelog </changelog>` and :doc:`release notes </release-notes>` where applicable
3. :doc:`Build the docs locally </building-the-docs>`
4. Open the built .html files for the modified pages to ensure they render correctly

Merging the changes back into Corda
-----------------------------------

1. Create a pull request from your fork to the master branch of the Corda repo
2. Complete the pull-request checklist in the comments box:

    * State that you have run the tests
    * State that you have included JavaDocs for any new public APIs
    * State that you have included the change in the :doc:`changelog </changelog>` and
      :doc:`release notes </release-notes>` where applicable
    * State that you are in agreement with the terms of
      `CONTRIBUTING.md <https://github.com/corda/corda/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md>`_

3. Request a review from a member of the Corda platform team via the `#design channel <http://slack.corda.net/>`_
4. Wait for your PR to pass all four types of continuous integration tests (integration, API stability, build and unit)

   * Currently, external contributors cannot see the output of these tests. If your PR fails a test that passed
     locally, ask the reviewer for further details

5. Once a reviewer has approved the PR and the tests have passed, squash-and-merge the PR as a single commit
