docs/source/gcp-vm.rst, before:

Deploying Corda to Corda Testnet from a Google Cloud Platform VM
================================================================

.. contents::

This document explains how to deploy a Corda node to Google Cloud Platform that can connect directly to the Corda Testnet. A self service download link can be obtained from https://testnet.corda.network. This document will describe how to set up a virtual machine on the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) to deploy your pre-configured Corda node and automatically connnect to Testnet.

Pre-requisites
--------------
* Ensure you have a registered Google Cloud Platform account with
  billing enabled (https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/manage-billing-account) which can create virtual machines under your subscription(s) and you are logged on to the GCP console: https://console.cloud.google.com.


Deploy Corda node
-----------------

Browse to https://console.cloud.google.com and log in with your
Google credentials.

**STEP 1: Create a GCP Project**

In the project drop down click on the plus icon to create a new
project to house your Corda resources.

.. image:: resources/consolegcp.png

.. image:: resources/console2.png
   
.. image:: resources/newprojectgcp.png

Enter a project name and click Create.

**STEP 2: Launch the VM**

In the left hand side nav click on Compute Engine.

.. image:: resources/gcpcompute.png

Click on Create Instance.

.. image:: resources/consolegcpcreatevm.png

Fill in the form with the desired VM specs:

Recommended minimum 4vCPU with 15GB memory and 40GB Persistent disk.
Ubuntu 16.04 LTS.

Allow full API access.

Dont worry about firewall settings as you will configure those later. 

.. image:: resources/gcpconsolevmsettings.png

Click Create and wait a few sections for your instance to provision
and start running.

**STEP 3: Connect to your VM and set up the environment**

Once your instance is running click on the SSH button to launch a
cloud SSH terminal in a new window. 

.. image:: resources/gcpconsolelaunchssh.png
   
.. image:: resources/gcpshell.png

Run the following to configure the firewall to allow Corda traffic

.. code:: bash

    gcloud compute firewall-rules create nodetonode --allow tcp:10002
    gcloud compute firewall-rules create nodetorpc --allow tcp:10003
    gcloud compute firewall-rules create webserver --allow tcp:8080


Promote the ephemeral IP address associated with this
instance to a static IP address.

First check the region and select the one you are using from the list:

.. code:: bash

    gcloud compute regions list

Find your external IP:

.. code:: bash

    gcloud compute addresses list

Run this command with the ephemeral IP address as the argument to
the --addresses flag and the region:

.. code:: bash

    gcloud compute addresses create corda-node --addresses 35.204.53.61 --region europe-west4

**STEP 4: Download and set up your Corda node**

Now your GCP environment is configured you can switch to the Testnet 
web application and click on the copy to clipboard button to get a one
time installation script.

.. note:: If you have not already set up your account on Testnet then please visit https://testnet.corda.network and sign up.

.. image:: resources/testnet-platform.png

You can generate as many Testnet identites as you like by refreshing
this page to generate a new one time link. 
	   
In the terminal of your cloud instance paste the command you just copied to install and run
your unique Corda instance:

.. code:: bash

    sudo ONE_TIME_DOWNLOAD_KEY=YOUR_UNIQUE_DOWNLOAD_KEY_HERE bash -c "$(curl -L https://testnet.corda.network/api/user/node/install.sh)"

.. warning:: This command will execute the install script as ROOT on your cloud instance. You may wish to examine the script prior to executing it on your machine.

You can now navigate to the external web address of the instance and
see any cordapps running on port 8080 (if you have any installed).

Commit message:

Na testnet explorer docs (#3660)
* added doc on testing deployment with node explorer

docs/source/gcp-vm.rst, after:

Deploying Corda to Corda Testnet from a Google Cloud Platform VM
================================================================

.. contents::

This document explains how to deploy a Corda node to Google Cloud Platform that can connect directly to the Corda Testnet. A self service download link can be obtained from https://testnet.corda.network. This document will describe how to set up a virtual machine on the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) to deploy your pre-configured Corda node and automatically connnect to Testnet.

Pre-requisites
--------------
* Ensure you have a registered Google Cloud Platform account with
  billing enabled (https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/manage-billing-account) which can create virtual machines under your subscription(s) and you are logged on to the GCP console: https://console.cloud.google.com.


Deploy Corda node
-----------------

Browse to https://console.cloud.google.com and log in with your
Google credentials.

**STEP 1: Create a GCP Project**

In the project drop down click on the plus icon to create a new
project to house your Corda resources.

.. image:: resources/consolegcp.png

.. image:: resources/console2.png
   
.. image:: resources/newprojectgcp.png

Enter a project name and click Create.

**STEP 2: Launch the VM**

In the left hand side nav click on Compute Engine.

.. image:: resources/gcpcompute.png

Click on Create Instance.

.. image:: resources/consolegcpcreatevm.png

Fill in the form with the desired VM specs:

Recommended minimum 4vCPU with 15GB memory and 40GB Persistent disk.
Ubuntu 16.04 LTS.

Allow full API access.

Dont worry about firewall settings as you will configure those later. 

.. image:: resources/gcpconsolevmsettings.png

Click Create and wait a few sections for your instance to provision
and start running.

**STEP 3: Connect to your VM and set up the environment**

Once your instance is running click on the SSH button to launch a
cloud SSH terminal in a new window. 

.. image:: resources/gcpconsolelaunchssh.png
   
.. image:: resources/gcpshell.png

Run the following to configure the firewall to allow Corda traffic

.. code:: bash

    gcloud compute firewall-rules create nodetonode --allow tcp:10002
    gcloud compute firewall-rules create nodetorpc --allow tcp:10003
    gcloud compute firewall-rules create webserver --allow tcp:8080


Promote the ephemeral IP address associated with this
instance to a static IP address.

First check the region and select the one you are using from the list:

.. code:: bash

    gcloud compute regions list

Find your external IP:

.. code:: bash

    gcloud compute addresses list

Run this command with the ephemeral IP address as the argument to
the --addresses flag and the region:

.. code:: bash

    gcloud compute addresses create corda-node --addresses 35.204.53.61 --region europe-west4

**STEP 4: Download and set up your Corda node**

Now your GCP environment is configured you can switch to the Testnet 
web application and click on the copy to clipboard button to get a one
time installation script.

.. note:: If you have not already set up your account on Testnet then please visit https://testnet.corda.network and sign up.

.. image:: resources/testnet-platform.png

You can generate as many Testnet identites as you like by refreshing
this page to generate a new one time link. 
	   
In the terminal of your cloud instance paste the command you just copied to install and run
your unique Corda instance:

.. code:: bash

    sudo ONE_TIME_DOWNLOAD_KEY=YOUR_UNIQUE_DOWNLOAD_KEY_HERE bash -c "$(curl -L https://testnet.corda.network/api/user/node/install.sh)"

.. warning:: This command will execute the install script as ROOT on your cloud instance. You may wish to examine the script prior to executing it on your machine.

You can follow the progress of the installation by typing the following command in your terminal:

.. code:: bash

    tail -f /opt/corda/logs/node-<VM-NAME>.log

Once the node has booted up you can navigate to the external web address of the instance on port 8080. If everything is working you should see the following:

.. image:: resources/installed-cordapps.png


Testing your deployment
-----------------------

To test your deployment is working correctly follow the instructions in :doc:`testnet-explorer-corda` to set up the Finance CorDapp and issue cash to a counterparty.

This will also demonstrate how to install a custom CorDapp.
