docs/source/index.rst, before:

Welcome to Corda !
==================

`Corda <https://www.corda.net/>`_ is a blockchain-inspired open source distributed ledger platform. If you’d like a
quick introduction to distributed ledgers and how Corda is different, then watch this short video:

.. raw:: html

    <embed>
      <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/205410473" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </embed>

Want to see Corda running? Download our demonstration application `DemoBench <https://www.corda.net/downloads/>`_ or
follow our :doc:`quickstart guide </quickstart-index>`.

If you want to start coding on Corda, then familiarise yourself with the :doc:`key concepts </key-concepts>`, then read
our :doc:`Hello, World! tutorial </hello-world-introduction>`. For the background behind Corda, read the non-technical
`introductory white paper`_ or for more detail, the `technical white paper`_.

If you have questions or comments, then get in touch on `Slack <https://slack.corda.net/>`_ or ask a question on
`Stack Overflow <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/corda>`_ .

We look forward to seeing what you can do with Corda!

.. note:: You can read this site offline. Either `download the PDF`_ or download the Corda source code, run ``gradle buildDocs`` and you will have
   a copy of this site in the ``docs/build/html`` directory.

.. _`introductory white paper`: _static/corda-introductory-whitepaper.pdf
.. _`technical white paper`: _static/corda-technical-whitepaper.pdf
.. _`download the PDF`: _static/corda-developer-site.pdf

.. toctree::
   :caption: Development
   :maxdepth: 1

   quickstart-index.rst
   key-concepts.rst
   operations-guide.rst
   building-a-cordapp-index.rst
   tutorials-index.rst
   tools-index.rst
   node-internals-index.rst
   component-library-index.rst
   troubleshooting.rst
   json.rst

.. toctree::
   :caption: Operations
   :maxdepth: 2

   corda-nodes-index.rst
   corda-networks-index.rst
   azure-vm.rst
   aws-vm.rst
   loadtesting.rst

.. toctree::
   :caption: Design docs
   :maxdepth: 2

   design/design-review-process.md
   design/certificate-hierarchies/design.md
   design/failure-detection-master-election/design.md
   design/float/design.md
   design/hadr/design.md
   design/kafka-notary/design.md
   design/monitoring-management/design.md
   design/sgx-integration/design.md

.. toctree::
   :caption: Participate
   :maxdepth: 2

   release-process-index.rst
   corda-repo-layout.rst
   deterministic-modules.rst
   building-the-docs.rst

Commit message:

Docs: rewrite the front page and re-arrange the enterprise toctree to highlight unique features.

docs/source/index.rst, after:

Corda Enterprise 3.0
====================

Welcome to the documentation website for **Corda Enterprise 3.0**, based on the Corda 3.1 open source release. Corda Enterprise adds:

* High performance, thanks to multi-threaded flow execution and extensive tuning.
* Support for more database backends:

   * SQL Server 2017
   * Azure SQL
   * Oracle 11g RC2
   * Oracle 12c
   * PostgreSQL 9.6

* The Corda Firewall, for termination of TLS connections within your network's DMZ.
* High availability features to support node-to-node failover.
* Support for advanced database migrations.

You can learn more in the :doc:`release-notes`.

Corda Enterprise is binary compatible with apps developed for the open source node. This docsite is intended for
administrators and advanced users who wish to learn how to install and configure an enterprise deployment. For
application development please continue to refer to `the main project documentation website <https://docs.corda.net/>`_.

------------

.. toctree::
   :caption: Corda Enterprise
   :maxdepth: 1

   hot-cold-deployment
   database-migration
   corda-bridge-component
   bridge-configuration-file

.. toctree::
   :caption: Development
   :maxdepth: 1

   quickstart-index.rst
   key-concepts.rst
   building-a-cordapp-index.rst
   tutorials-index.rst
   tools-index.rst
   node-internals-index.rst
   component-library-index.rst
   troubleshooting.rst
   json.rst

.. toctree::
   :caption: Operations
   :maxdepth: 2

   corda-nodes-index.rst
   corda-networks-index.rst
   azure-vm.rst
   aws-vm.rst
   loadtesting.rst
   certificate-revocation

.. toctree::
   :caption: Design docs
   :maxdepth: 2

   design/design-review-process.md
   design/certificate-hierarchies/design.md
   design/failure-detection-master-election/design.md
   design/float/design.md
   design/hadr/design.md
   design/kafka-notary/design.md
   design/monitoring-management/design.md
   design/sgx-integration/design.md

.. toctree::
   :caption: Participate
   :maxdepth: 2

   release-process-index.rst
   corda-repo-layout.rst
   deterministic-modules.rst
   building-the-docs.rst
