docs/source/key-concepts-oracles.rst, before:

Oracles
=======

.. topic:: Summary

   * *A fact can be included in a transaction as part of a command*
   * *An oracle is a service that will only sign the transaction if the included fact is true*

Video
-----
.. raw:: html

    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/214157956" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
    <p></p>

Overview
--------
In many cases, a transaction's contractual validity depends on some external piece of data, such as the current
exchange rate. However, if we were to let each participant evaluate the transaction's validity based on their own
view of the current exchange rate, the contract's execution would be non-deterministic: some signers would consider the
transaction valid, while others would consider it invalid. As a result, disagreements would arise over the true state
of the ledger.

Corda addresses this issue using *oracles*. Oracles are network services that, upon request, provide commands
that encapsulate a specific fact (e.g. the exchange rate at time x) and list the oracle as a required signer.

If a node wishes to use a given fact in a transaction, they request a command asserting this fact from the oracle. If
the oracle considers the fact to be true, they send back the required command. The node then includes the command in
their transaction, and the oracle will sign the transaction to assert that the fact is true.

If they wish to monetize their services, oracles can choose to only sign a transaction and attest to the validity of
the fact it contains for a fee.

Transaction tear-offs
---------------------
To sign a transaction, the only information the oracle needs to see is their embedded command. Providing any
additional transaction data to the oracle would constitute a privacy leak. Similarly, a non-validating notary only
needs to see a transaction's input states.

To combat this, the transaction proposer(s) uses a Merkle tree to "tear off" any parts of the transaction that the
oracle/notary doesn't need to see before presenting it to them for signing. A Merkle tree is a well-known cryptographic
scheme that is commonly used to provide proofs of inclusion and data integrity. Merkle trees are widely used in
peer-to-peer networks, blockchain systems and git.

The advantage of a Merkle tree is that the parts of the transaction that were torn off when presenting the transaction
to the oracle cannot later be changed without also invalidating the oracle's digital signature.

Transaction Merkle trees
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
A Merkle tree is constructed from a transaction by splitting the transaction into leaves, where each leaf contains
either an input, an output, a command, or an attachment. The Merkle tree also contains the other fields of the
``WireTransaction``, such as the timestamp, the notary, the type and the signers.

Next, the Merkle tree is built in the normal way by hashing the concatenation of nodes’ hashes below the current one
together. It’s visible on the example image below, where ``H`` denotes sha256 function, "+" - concatenation.

.. image:: resources/merkleTree.png

The transaction has two input states, one output state, one attachment, one command and a timestamp. For brevity
we didn't include all leaves on the diagram (type, notary and signers are presented as one leaf labelled Rest - in
reality they are separate leaves). Notice that if a tree is not a full binary tree, leaves are padded to the nearest
power of 2 with zero hash (since finding a pre-image of sha256(x) == 0 is hard computational task) - marked light
green above. Finally, the hash of the root is the identifier of the transaction, it's also used for signing and
verification of data integrity. Every change in transaction on a leaf level will change its identifier.

Hiding data
^^^^^^^^^^^
Hiding data and providing the proof that it formed a part of a transaction is done by constructing Partial Merkle Trees
(or Merkle branches). A Merkle branch is a set of hashes, that given the leaves’ data, is used to calculate the
root’s hash. Then that hash is compared with the hash of a whole transaction and if they match it means that data we
obtained belongs to that particular transaction.

.. image:: resources/partialMerkle.png

In the example above, the node ``H(f)`` is the one holding command data for signing by Oracle service. Blue leaf
``H(g)`` is also included since it's holding timestamp information. Nodes labelled ``Provided`` form the Partial
Merkle Tree, black ones are omitted. Having timestamp with the command that should be in a violet node place and
branch we are able to calculate root of this tree and compare it with original transaction identifier - we have a
proof that this command and timestamp belong to this transaction.

Commit message:

Replace timestamp with time-window

docs/source/key-concepts-oracles.rst, after:

Oracles
=======

.. topic:: Summary

   * *A fact can be included in a transaction as part of a command*
   * *An oracle is a service that will only sign the transaction if the included fact is true*

Video
-----
.. raw:: html

    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/214157956" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
    <p></p>

Overview
--------
In many cases, a transaction's contractual validity depends on some external piece of data, such as the current
exchange rate. However, if we were to let each participant evaluate the transaction's validity based on their own
view of the current exchange rate, the contract's execution would be non-deterministic: some signers would consider the
transaction valid, while others would consider it invalid. As a result, disagreements would arise over the true state
of the ledger.

Corda addresses this issue using *oracles*. Oracles are network services that, upon request, provide commands
that encapsulate a specific fact (e.g. the exchange rate at time x) and list the oracle as a required signer.

If a node wishes to use a given fact in a transaction, they request a command asserting this fact from the oracle. If
the oracle considers the fact to be true, they send back the required command. The node then includes the command in
their transaction, and the oracle will sign the transaction to assert that the fact is true.

If they wish to monetize their services, oracles can choose to only sign a transaction and attest to the validity of
the fact it contains for a fee.

Transaction tear-offs
---------------------
To sign a transaction, the only information the oracle needs to see is their embedded command. Providing any
additional transaction data to the oracle would constitute a privacy leak. Similarly, a non-validating notary only
needs to see a transaction's input states.

To combat this, the transaction proposer(s) uses a Merkle tree to "tear off" any parts of the transaction that the
oracle/notary doesn't need to see before presenting it to them for signing. A Merkle tree is a well-known cryptographic
scheme that is commonly used to provide proofs of inclusion and data integrity. Merkle trees are widely used in
peer-to-peer networks, blockchain systems and git.

The advantage of a Merkle tree is that the parts of the transaction that were torn off when presenting the transaction
to the oracle cannot later be changed without also invalidating the oracle's digital signature.

Transaction Merkle trees
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
A Merkle tree is constructed from a transaction by splitting the transaction into leaves, where each leaf contains
either an input, an output, a command, or an attachment. The Merkle tree also contains the other fields of the
``WireTransaction``, such as the time-window, the notary, the type and the signers.

Next, the Merkle tree is built in the normal way by hashing the concatenation of nodes’ hashes below the current one
together. It’s visible on the example image below, where ``H`` denotes sha256 function, "+" - concatenation.

.. image:: resources/merkleTree.png

The transaction has two input states, one output state, one attachment, one command and a time-window. For brevity
we didn't include all leaves on the diagram (type, notary and signers are presented as one leaf labelled Rest - in
reality they are separate leaves). Notice that if a tree is not a full binary tree, leaves are padded to the nearest
power of 2 with zero hash (since finding a pre-image of sha256(x) == 0 is hard computational task) - marked light
green above. Finally, the hash of the root is the identifier of the transaction, it's also used for signing and
verification of data integrity. Every change in transaction on a leaf level will change its identifier.

Hiding data
^^^^^^^^^^^
Hiding data and providing the proof that it formed a part of a transaction is done by constructing Partial Merkle Trees
(or Merkle branches). A Merkle branch is a set of hashes, that given the leaves’ data, is used to calculate the
root’s hash. Then that hash is compared with the hash of a whole transaction and if they match it means that data we
obtained belongs to that particular transaction.

.. image:: resources/partialMerkle.png

In the example above, the node ``H(f)`` is the one holding command data for signing by Oracle service. Blue leaf
``H(g)`` is also included since it's holding time-window information. Nodes labelled ``Provided`` form the Partial
Merkle Tree, black ones are omitted. Having time-window with the command that should be in a violet node place and
branch we are able to calculate root of this tree and compare it with original transaction identifier - we have a
proof that this command and time-window belong to this transaction.
