docs/source/writing-a-cordapp.rst, before:

Writing a CorDapp
=================

.. contents::

Overview
--------
CorDapps can be written in either Java, Kotlin, or a combination of the two. Each CorDapp component takes the form
of a JVM class that subclasses or implements a Corda library type:

* Flows subclass ``FlowLogic``
* States implement ``ContractState``
* Contracts implement ``Contract``
* Services subclass ``SingletonSerializationToken``
* Serialisation whitelists implement ``SerializationWhitelist``

Web content and RPC clients
---------------------------
For testing purposes, CorDapps may also include:

* **APIs and static web content**: These are served by Corda's built-in webserver. This webserver is not
  production-ready, and should be used for testing purposes only

* **RPC clients**: These are programs that automate the process of interacting with a node via RPC

In production, a production-ready webserver should be used, and these files should be moved into a different module or
project so that they do not bloat the CorDapp at build time.

.. _cordapp-structure:

Structure
---------
You should base the structure of your project on the Java or Kotlin templates:

* `Java Template CorDapp <https://github.com/corda/cordapp-template-java>`_
* `Kotlin Template CorDapp <https://github.com/corda/cordapp-template-kotlin>`_

The project should be split into two modules:

* A ``cordapp-contracts-states`` module containing classes such as contracts and states that will be sent across the
  wire as part of a flow
* A ``cordapp`` module containing the remaining classes

Each module will be compiled into its own CorDapp. This minimises the size of the JAR that has to be sent across the
wire when nodes are agreeing ledger updates.

Module one - cordapp-contracts-states
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Here is the structure of the ``src`` directory for the ``cordapp-contracts-states`` module:

.. parsed-literal::

    .
    └── main
        └── java
            └── com
                └── template
                    ├── TemplateContract.java
                    └── TemplateState.java

The directory only contains two class definitions:

* ``TemplateContract``
* ``TemplateState``

These are definitions for classes that we expect to have to send over the wire. They will be compiled into their own
CorDapp.

Module two - cordapp
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Here is the structure of the ``src`` directory for the ``cordapp`` module:

.. parsed-literal::

    .
    ├── main
    │   ├── java
    │   │   └── com
    │   │       └── template
    │   │           ├── TemplateApi.java
    │   │           ├── TemplateClient.java
    │   │           ├── TemplateFlow.java
    │   │           ├── TemplateSerializationWhitelist.java
    │   │           └── TemplateWebPlugin.java
    │   └── resources
    │       ├── META-INF
    │       │   └── services
    │       │       ├── net.corda.core.serialization.SerializationWhitelist
    │       │       └── net.corda.webserver.services.WebServerPluginRegistry
    │       ├── certificates
    │       └── templateWeb
    ├── test
    │   └── java
    │       └── com
    │           └── template
    │               ├── ContractTests.java
    │               ├── FlowTests.java
    │               └── NodeDriver.java
    └── integrationTest
        └── java
            └── com
                └── template
                    └── DriverBasedTest.java

The ``src`` directory is structured as follows:

* ``main`` contains the source of the CorDapp
* ``test`` contains example unit tests, as well as a node driver for running the CorDapp from IntelliJ
* ``integrationTest`` contains an example integration test

Within ``main``, we have the following directories:

* ``resources/META-INF/services`` contains registries of the CorDapp's serialisation whitelists and web plugins
* ``resources/certificates`` contains dummy certificates for test purposes
* ``resources/templateWeb`` contains a dummy front-end
* ``java`` (or ``kotlin`` in the Kotlin template), which includes the source-code for our CorDapp

The source-code for our CorDapp breaks down as follows:

* ``TemplateFlow.java``, which contains a dummy ``FlowLogic`` subclass
* ``TemplateState.java``, which contains a dummy ``ContractState`` implementation
* ``TemplateContract.java``, which contains a dummy ``Contract`` implementation
* ``TemplateSerializationWhitelist.java``, which contains a dummy ``SerializationWhitelist`` implementation

In developing your CorDapp, you should start by modifying these classes to define the components of your CorDapp. A
single CorDapp can define multiple flows, states, and contracts.

The template also includes a web API and RPC client:

* ``TemplateApi.java``
* ``TemplateClient.java``
* ``TemplateWebPlugin.java``

These are for testing purposes and would be removed in a production CorDapp.

Resources
---------
In writing a CorDapp, you should consult the following resources:

* :doc:`Getting Set Up </getting-set-up>` to set up your development environment
* The :doc:`Hello, World! tutorial </hello-world-index>` to write your first CorDapp
* :doc:`Building a CorDapp </cordapp-build-systems>` to build and run your CorDapp
* The :doc:`API docs </api-index>` to read about the API available in developing CorDapps

  * There is also a :doc:`cheatsheet </cheat-sheet>` recapping the key types

* The :doc:`Flow cookbook </flow-cookbook>` to see code examples of how to perform common flow tasks
* `Sample CorDapps <https://www.corda.net/samples/>`_ showing various parts of Corda's functionality

Commit message:

Documents how a new CorDapp's dependencies and Corda version are defined.

docs/source/writing-a-cordapp.rst, after:

Writing a CorDapp
=================

.. contents::

Overview
--------
CorDapps can be written in either Java, Kotlin, or a combination of the two. Each CorDapp component takes the form
of a JVM class that subclasses or implements a Corda library type:

* Flows subclass ``FlowLogic``
* States implement ``ContractState``
* Contracts implement ``Contract``
* Services subclass ``SingletonSerializationToken``
* Serialisation whitelists implement ``SerializationWhitelist``

Web content and RPC clients
---------------------------
For testing purposes, CorDapps may also include:

* **APIs and static web content**: These are served by Corda's built-in webserver. This webserver is not
  production-ready, and should be used for testing purposes only

* **RPC clients**: These are programs that automate the process of interacting with a node via RPC

In production, a production-ready webserver should be used, and these files should be moved into a different module or
project so that they do not bloat the CorDapp at build time.

.. _cordapp-structure:

Structure and dependencies
--------------------------
You should base your project on the Java template (for CorDapps written in Java) or the Kotlin template (for CorDapps
written in Kotlin):

* `Java Template CorDapp <https://github.com/corda/cordapp-template-java>`_
* `Kotlin Template CorDapp <https://github.com/corda/cordapp-template-kotlin>`_

Please checkout the branch of the template that corresponds to the version of Corda you are using. For example, someone
building a CorDapp on Corda 3 should use the ``release-V3`` branch of the template.

The required dependencies are defined by the template's ``./build.gradle`` file.

The project should be split into two modules:

* A ``cordapp-contracts-states`` module containing classes such as contracts and states that will be sent across the
  wire as part of a flow
* A ``cordapp`` module containing the remaining classes

Each module will be compiled into its own CorDapp. This minimises the size of the JAR that has to be sent across the
wire when nodes are agreeing ledger updates.

Module one - cordapp-contracts-states
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Here is the structure of the ``src`` directory for the ``cordapp-contracts-states`` module:

.. parsed-literal::

    .
    └── main
        └── java
            └── com
                └── template
                    ├── TemplateContract.java
                    └── TemplateState.java

The directory only contains two class definitions:

* ``TemplateContract``
* ``TemplateState``

These are definitions for classes that we expect to have to send over the wire. They will be compiled into their own
CorDapp.

Module two - cordapp
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Here is the structure of the ``src`` directory for the ``cordapp`` module:

.. parsed-literal::

    .
    ├── main
    │   ├── java
    │   │   └── com
    │   │       └── template
    │   │           ├── TemplateApi.java
    │   │           ├── TemplateClient.java
    │   │           ├── TemplateFlow.java
    │   │           ├── TemplateSerializationWhitelist.java
    │   │           └── TemplateWebPlugin.java
    │   └── resources
    │       ├── META-INF
    │       │   └── services
    │       │       ├── net.corda.core.serialization.SerializationWhitelist
    │       │       └── net.corda.webserver.services.WebServerPluginRegistry
    │       ├── certificates
    │       └── templateWeb
    ├── test
    │   └── java
    │       └── com
    │           └── template
    │               ├── ContractTests.java
    │               ├── FlowTests.java
    │               └── NodeDriver.java
    └── integrationTest
        └── java
            └── com
                └── template
                    └── DriverBasedTest.java

The ``src`` directory is structured as follows:

* ``main`` contains the source of the CorDapp
* ``test`` contains example unit tests, as well as a node driver for running the CorDapp from IntelliJ
* ``integrationTest`` contains an example integration test

Within ``main``, we have the following directories:

* ``resources/META-INF/services`` contains registries of the CorDapp's serialisation whitelists and web plugins
* ``resources/certificates`` contains dummy certificates for test purposes
* ``resources/templateWeb`` contains a dummy front-end
* ``java`` (or ``kotlin`` in the Kotlin template), which includes the source-code for our CorDapp

The source-code for our CorDapp breaks down as follows:

* ``TemplateFlow.java``, which contains a dummy ``FlowLogic`` subclass
* ``TemplateState.java``, which contains a dummy ``ContractState`` implementation
* ``TemplateContract.java``, which contains a dummy ``Contract`` implementation
* ``TemplateSerializationWhitelist.java``, which contains a dummy ``SerializationWhitelist`` implementation

In developing your CorDapp, you should start by modifying these classes to define the components of your CorDapp. A
single CorDapp can define multiple flows, states, and contracts.

The template also includes a web API and RPC client:

* ``TemplateApi.java``
* ``TemplateClient.java``
* ``TemplateWebPlugin.java``

These are for testing purposes and would be removed in a production CorDapp.

Resources
---------
In writing a CorDapp, you should consult the following resources:

* :doc:`Getting Set Up </getting-set-up>` to set up your development environment
* The :doc:`Hello, World! tutorial </hello-world-index>` to write your first CorDapp
* :doc:`Building a CorDapp </cordapp-build-systems>` to build and run your CorDapp
* The :doc:`API docs </api-index>` to read about the API available in developing CorDapps

  * There is also a :doc:`cheatsheet </cheat-sheet>` recapping the key types

* The :doc:`Flow cookbook </flow-cookbook>` to see code examples of how to perform common flow tasks
* `Sample CorDapps <https://www.corda.net/samples/>`_ showing various parts of Corda's functionality
