network-management/README.md, before:


# Building the binaries

## Network management server
To build a fat jar containing all the doorman code you can simply invoke:
```
    ./gradlew network-management:capsule:buildDoormanJAR
```

The built file will appear in:
```
network-management/capsule/build/libs/doorman-<version>.jar
```
## HSM signing server
To build a fat jar containing all the HSM signing server code you can simply invoke:
```
    ./gradlew network-management:capsule-hsm:buildHsmJAR
```

The built file will appear in:
```
network-management/capsule-hsm/build/libs/hsm-<version>.jar
```

The binaries can also be obtained from artifactory after deployment in TeamCity.

To run the HSM signing server:

```
cd network-management
java -jar capsule-hsm/build/libs/hsm-<version>.jar --config-file hsm.conf
```

For a list of options the HSM signing server takes, run with the `--help` option:
```
java -jar capsule-hsm/build/libs/hsm-<version>.jar --help
```

## HSM Certificate Generator

To build a fat jar containing all the hsm certificate generator code you can simply invoke
```
    ./gradlew network-management:capsule-hsm-cert-generator:buildHsmCertGeneratorJAR
```

The built file will appear in
```
network-management/capsule-hsm-cert-generator/build/libs/hsm-cert-generator-<VERSION>.jar
```

## Certificate Revocation Request Submission Tool

To build a fat jar containing all the CRR submission tool code you can simply invoke
```
    ./gradlew network-management:capsule-crr-submission:buildCrrSubmissionJAR
```

The built file will appear in
```
network-management/capsule-crr-submission/build/libs/crr-submission-<VERSION>.jar
```


# Logs
In order to set the desired logging level the system properties need to be used.
Appropriate system properties can be set at the execution time.
Example:
```
java -DdefaultLogLevel=TRACE -DconsoleLogLevel=TRACE -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file>
```

#Configuring network management service
### Local signing

   When `keystorePath` is provided in the config file, a signer will be created to handle all the signing periodically
   using the CA keys in the provided keystore.
   
   The network management service can be started without a signer, the signing will be delegated to external process
   (e.g. HSM) connecting to the same database, the server will poll the database periodically for newly signed data and
   update the statuses accordingly.
   
   Additional configuration needed for local signer:
   ```
   #For local signing
   rootStorePath = ${basedir}"/certificates/rootstore.jks"
   keystorePath = ${basedir}"/certificates/caKeystore.jks"
   keystorePassword = "password"
   caPrivateKeyPassword = "password"
   ```

## Doorman Service
Doorman service can be started with the following options :

### JIRA

The doorman service can use JIRA to manage both the certificate signing request and the certificate revocation request approval work flows.
This can be turned on by providing JIRA connection configuration in the config file.
   ```
   doorman {
       jira {
         address = "https://doorman-jira-host.com/"
         projectCode = "TD"
         username = "username"
         password = "password"
       }
       .
       .
       .
   }
   ```
#### JIRA project configuration
* The JIRA project should setup as "Business Project" with "Task" workflow.
* Custom text field input "Request ID", and "Reject Reason" should be created in JIRA, doorman will exit with error without
these custom fields.
  
### Auto approval 
  When `approveAll` is set to `true`, the doorman will approve all requests on receive. (*This should only be enabled in a
  test environment)
    
### Network map service
  Network map service can be enabled by providing the following config:
  ```
  networkMap {
    cacheTimeout = 600000
    signInterval = 10000
  }
  ```
  `cacheTimeout`(ms) determines how often the server should poll the database for a newly signed network map and also how often nodes should poll for a new network map (by including this value in the HTTP response header). **This is not how often changes to  the  network map are signed, which is a different process.**  
  `signInterval`(ms) this is only relevant when local signer is enabled. The signer poll the database according to the `signInterval`, and create a new network map if the collection of node info hashes is different from the current network map. 
    
## Example config file
```
basedir = "."
address = "localhost:0"
rootStorePath = ${basedir}"/certificates/rootstore.jks"
keystorePath = ${basedir}"/certificates/caKeystore.jks"
#keystorePassword = "password" #Optional if not specified, user will be prompted on the console.
#caPrivateKeyPassword = "password" #Optional if not specified, user will be prompted on the console.
#rootPrivateKeyPassword = "password" #Optional if not specified, user will be prompted on the console.
#rootKeystorePassword = "password" #Optional if not specified, user will be prompted on the console.

dataSourceProperties {
  dataSourceClassName = org.h2.jdbcx.JdbcDataSource
  "dataSource.url" = "jdbc:h2:file:"${basedir}"/persistence;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=FALSE;LOCK_TIMEOUT=10000;WRITE_DELAY=0;AUTO_SERVER_PORT="${h2port}
  "dataSource.user" = sa
  "dataSource.password" = ""
}

database {
    runMigration = true
}

h2port = 0

# Comment out this section if running without doorman service
doorman {
  approveInterval = 10000
  approveAll = false
  jira {
    address = "https://doorman-jira-host.com/"
    projectCode = "TD"
    username = "username"
    password = "password"
  }
}

# Comment out this section if running without the revocation service
revocation {
  approveInterval = 10000
  approveAll = false
  crlUpdateInterval = 86400000
  crlEndpoint = "http://test.com/crl"
  crlCacheTimeout = 86400000
  jira {
    address = "https://doorman-jira-host.com/"
    projectCode = "CRR"
    username = "username"
    password = "password"
  }
}

# Comment out this section if running without network map service
networkMap {
  cacheTimeout = 600000
  signInterval = 10000
}
```

# Running the network

### 1. Create keystore for local signer

   If local signer is enabled, the server will look for key stores in the certificate folder on start up.
   The key stores can be created using `--mode` flag.
   ```
   java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file> --mode ROOT_KEYGEN
   ```
   and 
   ```
   java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file> --mode CA_KEYGEN
   ```
   
   A trust store containing the root certificate will be created in the location `distribute-nodes / network-root-truststore.jks`
   (relative to `rootStorePath`). The trust store's password can be set using command line argument `--trust-store-password`, 
   or the doorman's keygen utility will ask for password input if trust store password is not provided using this flag.
   This trust store file is to be distributed to every node that wishes to register with the doorman. The node cannot
   register without it.

### 2. Start Doorman service for notary registration 
   Start the network management server with the doorman service for initial bootstrapping. Network map service (`networkMap`)
   should be **disabled** at this point. **Comment out** network map config in the config file and start the server by running :
   ```
   java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file>
   ```
   
### 3. Create notary node and register with the doorman
   After the doorman service is started, start the notary node for registration.
   ```
   java -jar corda.jar --initial-registration --network-root-truststore-password <trust store password>
   ```
   By default it will expect trust store file received from the doorman to be in the location ``certificates/network-root-truststore.jks``.
   This can be overridden with the additional `--network-root-truststore` flag.
   
   NOTE: This step applies to all nodes that wish to register with the doorman. You will have to configure ``compatibiityZoneURL`` and set ``devMode`` to false on each node.

### 4. Generate node info files for notary nodes
   Once notary nodes are registered, run the notary nodes with the `just-generate-node-info` flag.
   This will generate the node info files, which then should be referenced in the network parameters configuration.

### 5. Add notary identities to the network parameters
   The network parameters should contain reference to the notaries node info files.
      Example network parameters file:
      
      notaries : [
          {
              notaryNodeInfoFile: "/Path/To/NodeInfo/File1"
              validating: true
          },
          {
              notaryNodeInfoFile: "/Path/To/NodeInfo/File2"
              validating: false
          }
      ]
      minimumPlatformVersion = 1
      maxMessageSize = 10485760
      maxTransactionSize = 10485760
      
   Save the parameters to `network-parameters.conf`

### 6. Load the initial network parameters
A network parameters file is required to start the network map service for the first time. The initial network parameters
file can be loaded using the `--set-network-parameters` flag. We can now restart the network management server with
both doorman and network map service.  
```
java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file> --set-network-parameters network-parameters.conf
```

The server will terminate once this process is complete. Start it back up again with both the doorman and network map service.
```
java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file>
```

### 7. Archive policy
The ``node_info`` and ``network_map`` table are designed to retain all historical data for auditing purposes and will grow over time.  
**It is recommended to monitor the space usage and archive these tables according to the data retention policy.**

Run the following SQL script to archive the node info table (change the timestamp according to the archive policy):
```
    delect from node_info where is_current = false and published_at < '2018-03-12'
```

# Updating the network parameters
The initial network parameters can be subsequently changed through an update process. However, these changes must first
be advertised to the entire network to allow nodes time to agree to the changes.

The server needs to be shutdown and started with the same `set-network-parameters` flag as before but this time the network
parameters file must have `parametersUpdate` config block:
    
    parametersUpdate {
        description = "Important update"
        updateDeadline = "2017-08-31T05:10:36.297Z" # ISO-8601 time, substitute it with update deadline
    }
    
`description` is a short description of the update that will be communicated to the nodes and `updateDeadline` is
the time (in ISO-8601 format) by which all nodes in the network must decide that they have accepted the new parameters.

NOTE: Currently only backwards compatible changes to the network parameters can be made, i.e. notaries can't be removed,
max transaction size can only increase, etc.

It is possible to poll the network map database to check how many network participants have accepted the new network parameters
- the information is stored in the `node-info.accepted_parameters_hash` column.

When the time for switching the parameters comes, doorman should be restarted again, this time only with `flag-day` flag
(no parameters file).
```
java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --flag-day
```

This will switch the parameters that were previously advertised as an update to be the current ones in the network map,
however the new network parameters won't be active until the new network map is signed (either by HSM or by local signer).
All nodes in the network need to restart to apply the new parameters. Any node which has not accepted the new parameters
will fail to start.

It is possible to cancel the previously scheduled updated. To do so simply run:
```
java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --cancel-update
```

The network map will continue to advertise the cancelled update until the new network map is signed.

# Private Network Map
The private network is a tactical solution to provide temporary privacy to the initial network map.

## Creating a private network
To create a new private network, an entry has to be created in the ``private_network`` table manually.

Run the following SQL script to create a new private network:

```
insert into private_network (id, name)
values (NEWID(), 'Private Network Name')
```  

Then use the following SQL to retrieve the private network ID for the private network owner:
```
select id from private_network where name = 'Private Network Name'
```

## Modify existing private network registration
Since this is a tactical solution, any modification will require manual database changes.

**We should try to keep these changes to the minimal**

### Add nodes to a private network

```
update certificate_signing_request 
set private_network = '<<private_network_id>>' 
where request_id in ('<<certificate_request_id>>', ...)
```

or this SQL script to add all approved nodes to the private network map.

```
update certificate_signing_request 
set private_network = '<<private_network_id>>' 
where status = 'APPROVED'
```

### Move a node from its private network and into the global network map**

```
update certificate_signing_request 
set private_network = null 
where request_id = '<<certificate_request_id>>'
```

Commit message:

ENT-1685: Add clarification of update process to README (#645)
Add clarification of parameters update process to README

network-management/README.md, after:


# Building the binaries

## Network management server
To build a fat jar containing all the doorman code you can simply invoke:
```
    ./gradlew network-management:capsule:buildDoormanJAR
```

The built file will appear in:
```
network-management/capsule/build/libs/doorman-<version>.jar
```
## HSM signing server
To build a fat jar containing all the HSM signing server code you can simply invoke:
```
    ./gradlew network-management:capsule-hsm:buildHsmJAR
```

The built file will appear in:
```
network-management/capsule-hsm/build/libs/hsm-<version>.jar
```

The binaries can also be obtained from artifactory after deployment in TeamCity.

To run the HSM signing server:

```
cd network-management
java -jar capsule-hsm/build/libs/hsm-<version>.jar --config-file hsm.conf
```

For a list of options the HSM signing server takes, run with the `--help` option:
```
java -jar capsule-hsm/build/libs/hsm-<version>.jar --help
```

## HSM Certificate Generator

To build a fat jar containing all the hsm certificate generator code you can simply invoke
```
    ./gradlew network-management:capsule-hsm-cert-generator:buildHsmCertGeneratorJAR
```

The built file will appear in
```
network-management/capsule-hsm-cert-generator/build/libs/hsm-cert-generator-<VERSION>.jar
```

## Certificate Revocation Request Submission Tool

To build a fat jar containing all the CRR submission tool code you can simply invoke
```
    ./gradlew network-management:capsule-crr-submission:buildCrrSubmissionJAR
```

The built file will appear in
```
network-management/capsule-crr-submission/build/libs/crr-submission-<VERSION>.jar
```


# Logs
In order to set the desired logging level the system properties need to be used.
Appropriate system properties can be set at the execution time.
Example:
```
java -DdefaultLogLevel=TRACE -DconsoleLogLevel=TRACE -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file>
```

#Configuring network management service
### Local signing

   When `keystorePath` is provided in the config file, a signer will be created to handle all the signing periodically
   using the CA keys in the provided keystore.
   
   The network management service can be started without a signer, the signing will be delegated to external process
   (e.g. HSM) connecting to the same database, the server will poll the database periodically for newly signed data and
   update the statuses accordingly.
   
   Additional configuration needed for local signer:
   ```
   #For local signing
   rootStorePath = ${basedir}"/certificates/rootstore.jks"
   keystorePath = ${basedir}"/certificates/caKeystore.jks"
   keystorePassword = "password"
   caPrivateKeyPassword = "password"
   ```

## Doorman Service
Doorman service can be started with the following options :

### JIRA

The doorman service can use JIRA to manage both the certificate signing request and the certificate revocation request approval work flows.
This can be turned on by providing JIRA connection configuration in the config file.
   ```
   doorman {
       jira {
         address = "https://doorman-jira-host.com/"
         projectCode = "TD"
         username = "username"
         password = "password"
       }
       .
       .
       .
   }
   ```
#### JIRA project configuration
* The JIRA project should setup as "Business Project" with "Task" workflow.
* Custom text field input "Request ID", and "Reject Reason" should be created in JIRA, doorman will exit with error without
these custom fields.
  
### Auto approval 
  When `approveAll` is set to `true`, the doorman will approve all requests on receive. (*This should only be enabled in a
  test environment)
    
### Network map service
  Network map service can be enabled by providing the following config:
  ```
  networkMap {
    cacheTimeout = 600000
    signInterval = 10000
  }
  ```
  `cacheTimeout`(ms) determines how often the server should poll the database for a newly signed network map and also how often nodes should poll for a new network map (by including this value in the HTTP response header). **This is not how often changes to  the  network map are signed, which is a different process.**  
  `signInterval`(ms) this is only relevant when local signer is enabled. The signer poll the database according to the `signInterval`, and create a new network map if the collection of node info hashes is different from the current network map. 
    
## Example config file
```
basedir = "."
address = "localhost:0"
rootStorePath = ${basedir}"/certificates/rootstore.jks"
keystorePath = ${basedir}"/certificates/caKeystore.jks"
#keystorePassword = "password" #Optional if not specified, user will be prompted on the console.
#caPrivateKeyPassword = "password" #Optional if not specified, user will be prompted on the console.
#rootPrivateKeyPassword = "password" #Optional if not specified, user will be prompted on the console.
#rootKeystorePassword = "password" #Optional if not specified, user will be prompted on the console.

dataSourceProperties {
  dataSourceClassName = org.h2.jdbcx.JdbcDataSource
  "dataSource.url" = "jdbc:h2:file:"${basedir}"/persistence;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=FALSE;LOCK_TIMEOUT=10000;WRITE_DELAY=0;AUTO_SERVER_PORT="${h2port}
  "dataSource.user" = sa
  "dataSource.password" = ""
}

database {
    runMigration = true
}

h2port = 0

# Comment out this section if running without doorman service
doorman {
  approveInterval = 10000
  approveAll = false
  jira {
    address = "https://doorman-jira-host.com/"
    projectCode = "TD"
    username = "username"
    password = "password"
  }
}

# Comment out this section if running without the revocation service
revocation {
  approveInterval = 10000
  approveAll = false
  crlUpdateInterval = 86400000
  crlEndpoint = "http://test.com/crl"
  crlCacheTimeout = 86400000
  jira {
    address = "https://doorman-jira-host.com/"
    projectCode = "CRR"
    username = "username"
    password = "password"
  }
}

# Comment out this section if running without network map service
networkMap {
  cacheTimeout = 600000
  signInterval = 10000
}
```

# Running the network

### 1. Create keystore for local signer

   If local signer is enabled, the server will look for key stores in the certificate folder on start up.
   The key stores can be created using `--mode` flag.
   ```
   java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file> --mode ROOT_KEYGEN
   ```
   and 
   ```
   java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file> --mode CA_KEYGEN
   ```
   
   A trust store containing the root certificate will be created in the location `distribute-nodes / network-root-truststore.jks`
   (relative to `rootStorePath`). The trust store's password can be set using command line argument `--trust-store-password`, 
   or the doorman's keygen utility will ask for password input if trust store password is not provided using this flag.
   This trust store file is to be distributed to every node that wishes to register with the doorman. The node cannot
   register without it.

### 2. Start Doorman service for notary registration 
   Start the network management server with the doorman service for initial bootstrapping. Network map service (`networkMap`)
   should be **disabled** at this point. **Comment out** network map config in the config file and start the server by running :
   ```
   java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file>
   ```
   
### 3. Create notary node and register with the doorman
   After the doorman service is started, start the notary node for registration.
   ```
   java -jar corda.jar --initial-registration --network-root-truststore-password <trust store password>
   ```
   By default it will expect trust store file received from the doorman to be in the location ``certificates/network-root-truststore.jks``.
   This can be overridden with the additional `--network-root-truststore` flag.
   
   NOTE: This step applies to all nodes that wish to register with the doorman. You will have to configure ``compatibiityZoneURL`` and set ``devMode`` to false on each node.

### 4. Generate node info files for notary nodes
   Once notary nodes are registered, run the notary nodes with the `just-generate-node-info` flag.
   This will generate the node info files, which then should be referenced in the network parameters configuration.

### 5. Add notary identities to the network parameters
   The network parameters should contain reference to the notaries node info files.
      Example network parameters file:
      
      notaries : [
          {
              notaryNodeInfoFile: "/Path/To/NodeInfo/File1"
              validating: true
          },
          {
              notaryNodeInfoFile: "/Path/To/NodeInfo/File2"
              validating: false
          }
      ]
      minimumPlatformVersion = 1
      maxMessageSize = 10485760
      maxTransactionSize = 10485760
      
   Save the parameters to `network-parameters.conf`

### 6. Load the initial network parameters
A network parameters file is required to start the network map service for the first time. The initial network parameters
file can be loaded using the `--set-network-parameters` flag. We can now restart the network management server with
both doorman and network map service.  
```
java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file> --set-network-parameters network-parameters.conf
```

The server will terminate once this process is complete. Start it back up again with both the doorman and network map service.
```
java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --config-file <config file>
```

### 7. Archive policy
The ``node_info`` and ``network_map`` table are designed to retain all historical data for auditing purposes and will grow over time.  
**It is recommended to monitor the space usage and archive these tables according to the data retention policy.**

Run the following SQL script to archive the node info table (change the timestamp according to the archive policy):
```
    delect from node_info where is_current = false and published_at < '2018-03-12'
```

# Updating the network parameters
The initial network parameters can be subsequently changed through an update process. However, these changes must first
be advertised to the entire network to allow nodes time to agree to the changes. Every time the server needs to be shutdown
and run with one of the following flags: `--set-network-parameters`, `--flag-day` or `--cancel-update`. For change to be
advertised to the nodes new network map has to be signed (either by HSM or by local signer).

Typical update process is as follows:
1. Start network map with initial network parameters.
2. To advertise an update:
    * Stop network-management.
    * Run it with ``--set-network-parameters`` flag. The network parameters file must have `parametersUpdate` config block:
        ```    
            parametersUpdate {
                description = "Important update"
                updateDeadline = "2017-08-31T05:10:36.297Z" # ISO-8601 time, substitute it with update deadline
            }
        ```    
        Where `description` is a short description of the update that will be communicated to the nodes and `updateDeadline` is
        the time (in ISO-8601 format) by which all nodes in the network must decide that they have accepted the new parameters.
        
        NOTE: Currently only backwards compatible changes to the network parameters can be made, i.e. notaries can't be removed,
        max transaction size can only increase, etc.
        
        The process will exit, nothing will be sent to the nodes yet.
    * Start network-management as normal without any flags. This time, the nodes will be notified of the new parameters
    update next time they poll.
3. Before the `updateDeadline` time, nodes will have to run the RPC command to accept new parameters.
This will not activate the new network parameters on the nodes. It is possible to poll the network map database to check 
how many network participants have accepted the new network parameters - the information is stored in the `node-info.accepted_parameters_hash` column.
4. When the flag day comes. Restart network-management with ``--flag-day`` flag. This will cause all nodes in the network
to shutdown when they see that the network parameters have changed.
The nodes that didn't accept the parameters will be removed from the network map. The ones that accepted, will need to be manually restarted.

It is possible to cancel the previously scheduled update. To do so simply run:
```
java -jar doorman-<version>.jar --cancel-update
```

The network map will continue to advertise the cancelled update until the new network map is signed.

# Private Network Map
The private network is a tactical solution to provide temporary privacy to the initial network map.

## Creating a private network
To create a new private network, an entry has to be created in the ``private_network`` table manually.

Run the following SQL script to create a new private network:

```
insert into private_network (id, name)
values (NEWID(), 'Private Network Name')
```  

Then use the following SQL to retrieve the private network ID for the private network owner:
```
select id from private_network where name = 'Private Network Name'
```

## Modify existing private network registration
Since this is a tactical solution, any modification will require manual database changes.

**We should try to keep these changes to the minimal**

### Add nodes to a private network

```
update certificate_signing_request 
set private_network = '<<private_network_id>>' 
where request_id in ('<<certificate_request_id>>', ...)
```

or this SQL script to add all approved nodes to the private network map.

```
update certificate_signing_request 
set private_network = '<<private_network_id>>' 
where status = 'APPROVED'
```

### Move a node from its private network and into the global network map**

```
update certificate_signing_request 
set private_network = null 
where request_id = '<<certificate_request_id>>'
```
